= EPP Version 1.0

The EPP gem provides basic functionality for connecting and making requests on EPP (Extensible Provisioning Protocol) servers. Currently, major providers Centralnic and Nominet have been tested.

* {Nominet Standard EPP Documentation}[http://www.nominet.org.uk/registrars/systems/standardepp/]
* {Centralnic Labs EPP Documentation}[http://labs.centralnic.com/epp/]

== Installation

You can install this gem with:

    $ sudo gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
    $ sudo gem install ultraspeed-epp
    
Then, you can require it in your Ruby app:

    require "epp"
    
If you're using Rails, add the following line to your Rails <tt>config/environment.rb</tt>:

    config.gem "ultraspeed-epp", :lib => "epp", :source => "http://gems.github.com"
    
Once you do that, you can install the gem by typing <tt>sudo rake gems:install</tt>.

== Example Usage

First, you must initialize an Epp::Server object to use. This requires the server address and port:

    server = Epp::Server.new(
      :server => "testbed-epp.nominet.org.uk",
      :port => 700
    )
    
If no port is specified, it will be assumed that you will be using port 700.

You would then make an XML request to the server. You can build this however you'd like. For simplicity purposes, here is a string <tt><login></tt> request:

    xml = %{
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0 epp-1.0.xsd">
      <command>
        <login>
          <clID>EXAMPLE-TAG</clID>
          <pw>foo-123</pw>
          <options>
            <version>1.0</version>
            <lang>en</lang>
          </options>
          <svcs>
            <objURI>urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0</objURI>
            <objURI>urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:contact-1.0</objURI>
            <objURI>urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0</objURI>
          </svcs>
        </login>
        <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
      </command>
    </epp>
    }
      
    response = server.request(xml)
    
The EPP server would then return the XML response as a string, and set it equal to <tt>response</tt> for your usage.

== Bugs/Issues

Please report all issues using the GitHub issue tracker at:

http://github.com/ultraspeed/epp/issues

== Credit

Author::          Josh Delsman at Ultraspeed (http://twitter.com/voxxit)
Inspired from::   http://labs.centralnic.com/Net_EPP_Client.php

== License

The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2009 Josh Delsman (Ultraspeed)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.